Created model card for xlm-roberta-xl (#38597)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/xlm-roberta-xl.md

        <img alt="SDPA" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
    </div>
</div>

# XLM-RoBERTa-XL

[XLM-RoBERTa-XL](https://huggingface.co/papers/2105.00572) is a 3.5B parameter multilingual masked language model pretrained on 100 languages. It shows that by scaling model capacity, multilingual models demonstrates strong performance on high-resource languages and can even zero-shot low-resource languages.

You can find all the original XLM-RoBERTa-XL checkpoints under the [AI at Meta](https://huggingface.co/facebook?search_models=xlm) organization.

> [!TIP]
> Click on the XLM-RoBERTa-XL models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply XLM-RoBERTa-XL to different cross-lingual tasks like classification, translation, and question answering.

The example below demonstrates how to predict the `[MASK]` token with [`Pipeline`], [`AutoModel`], and from the command line.

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Pipeline">

```python
import torch  
from transformers import pipeline  

pipeline = pipeline(  
    task="fill-mask",  
    model="facebook/xlm-roberta-xl",  
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,  
    device=0  
)  

> pipeline("Bonjour, je suis un modèle [MASK].")  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pipeline("Bonjour, je suis un modèle <mask>.")  
```

Author: Fixed

```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="AutoModel">

```python
import torch  
from transformers import AutoModelForMaskedLM, AutoTokenizer  

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(  
    "facebook/xlm-roberta-xl",  
)  
model = AutoModelForMaskedLM.from_pretrained(  
    "facebook/xlm-roberta-xl",  
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,  
    device_map="auto",  
    attn_implementation="sdpa"  
)  

> inputs = tokenizer("Bonjour, je suis un modèle [MASK].", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
inputs = tokenizer("Bonjour, je suis un modèle <mask>.", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")  
```

# XLM-RoBERTa-XL

> <div style="float: right;">

Reviewer: The badges should go above `# XLM-RoBERTA-XL`

Author: Fixed

    <div class="flex flex-wrap space-x-1">
        <img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
        <img alt="SDPA" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
    </div>
</div>

> [XLM-RoBERTa-XL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.00572) is a large-scale multilingual language model with 3.5B parameters, trained on 100 languages. What makes XLM-RoBERTa-XL unique is its ability to achieve strong performance on both high-resource languages while greatly improving low-resource languages, outperforming both XLM-R and RoBERTa-Large on various benchmarks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[XLM-RoBERTa-XL](https://huggingface.co/papers/2105.00572) is a 3.5B parameter multilingual masked language model pretrained on 100 languages. It shows that by scaling model capacity, multilingual models demonstrates strong performance on high-resource languages and can even zero-shot low-resource languages.
```

Author: Fixed

> You can find all the original XLM-RoBERTa-XL checkpoints under the [XLM-RoBERTa-XL](https://huggingface.co/models?search=xlm-roberta-xl) collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find all the original XLM-RoBERTa-XL checkpoints under the [AI at Meta](https://huggingface.co/facebook?search_models=xlm) organization.
```

Author: Fixed

> [!TIP]
> Click on the XLM-RoBERTa-XL models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply XLM-RoBERTa-XL to different cross-lingual tasks like classification, translation, and question answering.

> The example below demonstrates how to use XLM-RoBERTa-XL for masked language modeling with [`Pipeline`] or the [`AutoModel`] class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below demonstrates how to predict the `[MASK]` token with [`Pipeline`], [`AutoModel`], and from the command line.
```

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Pipeline">

> ```python

Reviewer: This should be:

```py
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

pipeline = pipeline(
    task="fill-mask",
    model="facebook/xlm-roberta-xl",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device=0
)
pipeline("Bonjour, je suis un modèle [MASK].")
```

from transformers import pipeline

# Initialize the pipeline with XLM-RoBERTa-XL
unmasker = pipeline("fill-mask", model="facebook/xlm-roberta-xl")

# Example in English
result = unmasker("Hello, I'm a [MASK] model.")
print(result)

# Example in French
result = unmasker("Bonjour, je suis un modèle [MASK].")
print(result)
```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="AutoModel">

> ```python

Reviewer: This should be:

```py
import torch
from transformers import AutoModelForMaskedLM, AutoTokenizer

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(
    "facebook/xlm-roberta-xl",
)
model = AutoModelForMaskedLM.from_pretrained(
    "facebook/xlm-roberta-xl",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device_map="auto",
    attn_implementation="sdpa"
)
inputs = tokenizer("Bonjour, je suis un modèle [MASK].", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)
    predictions = outputs.logits

masked_index = torch.where(inputs['input_ids'] == tokenizer.mask_token_id)[1]
predicted_token_id = predictions[0, masked_index].argmax(dim=-1)
predicted_token = tokenizer.decode(predicted_token_id)

print(f"The predicted token is: {predicted_token}")
```

Author: Fixed

from transformers import AutoModelForMaskedLM, AutoTokenizer
import torch

# Load model and tokenizer
model = AutoModelForMaskedLM.from_pretrained("facebook/xlm-roberta-xl")
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("facebook/xlm-roberta-xl")

# Prepare input
text = "Hello, I'm a [MASK] model."
inputs = tokenizer(text, return_tensors="pt")

# Get prediction
with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)
    predictions = outputs.logits.argmax(dim=-1)

# Decode prediction
predicted_token = tokenizer.decode(predictions[0][inputs["input_ids"][0] == tokenizer.mask_token_id])
print(f"Predicted token: {predicted_token}")
```

</hfoption>

> </hfoptions>

Reviewer: Should include an example for command line usage and also a quantization example.

Author: Fixed

Reviewer: For the cli example:

```bash
echo -e "Plants create <mask> through a process known as photosynthesis." | transformers-cli run --task fill-mask --model facebook/xlm-roberta-xl --device 0
```

For the quantization example:

```py
import torch
from transformers import AutoModelForMaskedLM, AutoTokenizer, TorchAoConfig

quantization_config = TorchAoConfig("int4_weight_only", group_size=128)
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(
    "facebook/xlm-roberta-xl",
)
model = AutoModelForMaskedLM.from_pretrained(
    "facebook/xlm-roberta-xl",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device_map="auto",
    attn_implementation="sdpa",
    quantization_config=quantization_config
)
inputs = tokenizer("Bonjour, je suis un modèle [MASK].", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)
    predictions = outputs.logits

masked_index = torch.where(inputs['input_ids'] == tokenizer.mask_token_id)[1]
predicted_token_id = predictions[0, masked_index].argmax(dim=-1)
predicted_token = tokenizer.decode(predicted_token_id)

print(f"The predicted token is: {predicted_token}")
```

> ## Model Details
> 
> XLM-RoBERTa-XL was proposed in [Larger-Scale Transformers for Multilingual Masked Language Modeling](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.00572) by Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Myle Ott, Giri Anantharaman, and Alexis Conneau. The model achieves state-of-the-art results on several benchmarks:
> 
> - 1.8% average accuracy improvement over XLM-R on XNLI
> - Outperforms RoBERTa-Large on English GLUE tasks by 0.3% on average
> - Handles 99 more languages than RoBERTa-Large while maintaining strong performance
> 
> ### Key Features
> 
> - 3.5B parameter model (also available in 10.7B parameter version as XLM-R XXL)
> - Trained on 100 different languages
> - No language token required - automatically detects language from input
> - Based on the XLM-RoBERTa architecture with increased model capacity
> - Particularly effective for low-resource languages

Reviewer: Not necessary, users can read the paper for more details

```suggestion
```

> ## Usage Tips

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Notes
```

> - Unlike some XLM models, XLM-RoBERTa-XL doesn't require `lang` tensors - it automatically determines the language from input
> - Due to its large size, consider using model parallelism or gradient checkpointing for training
> - For inference, you may want to use quantization or model sharding to reduce memory requirements
> - Supports all standard RoBERTa tasks (classification, token classification, QA, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Unlike some XLM models, XLM-RoBERTa-XL doesn't require `lang` tensors to understand which language is used. It automatically determines the language from the input ids.
```

> ## Resources

Reviewer: Remove these resources since they're just internal links

Author: Fixed

- [Masked language modeling task guide](../tasks/masked_language_modeling)
- [Multiple choice task guide](../tasks/multiple_choice)

> <Tip>
> This implementation is based on XLM-RoBERTa. Refer to the [documentation of XLM-RoBERTa](xlm-roberta) for usage examples as well as the information relative to the inputs and outputs.
> </Tip>
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed
